Norman PD Extract Incidents Assignment
Author: Tony Silva
Email: tony.silva@ou.edu

Introduction:
In this assignment we were tasked with extracting the Incidents from the NormanPD website. Saving to a database and then
printing out some things from the database. This program is written in Python3 and uses a few different packages to
get the job done.
Norman PD website - http://normanpd.normanok.gov/content/daily-activity

Attached for this project submission is a version of the database that was created from one run. I renamed it so that it would
not interfere with a first run of the program. Please see "Bugs/Edge Cases" section below to understand what to do for multiple
runs of the program.

Norman PD Assignment:

In this assignment a few activities are performed. First, the python script queries the Norman PD website (listed above) for
all of the daily incidents on the web page. The script will save each of the PDFs into a new folder of your working directory.
As it is saving the program will print to let you know each PDF is being saved.
Next the script takes each of the PDFs and extracts the daily incident data into a python list. From there a sqlite3 database
is created. Once the database is created the incident data is inserted into the database utilizing python/sqlite3 commands.
Once all of the data is loaded into the database the number of rows in the database is printed, and five random rows from the database
are also printed. The following blog post greatly helped in extracting the data from the PDFs.
(http://code.activestate.com/recipes/511465/). It shows in python2 how to use the PyPDF to extract PDF data line by line.
A version of this was edited to be usable for python3 and PyPDF2. The program utilizes a Regular Expression in order to
adjust the data when saved into a list format.

Language:
Python 3

Requirements:
Please see the requirements.txt file in the project folder in order to know what packages are needed to run this package
You can utilize a virtual environment to download certain packaging requirements.
Please make sure you have internet connection.

How to run:
Make sure to complete the above requirements section and have the proper packages installed.
Navigate in the terminal to where the normanpd project folder is.
For example: if the normanpd project folder is in your home directory, simply make sure your current directory is ~
(cd ~). Note, in this submission the project folder was submitted within a directory called normanpd_silv6928. The
normanpd_silv6928 folder is not considered the project folder. The normanpd folder within this directory is the true
project folder.

Utilize the following command in the Linux Command terminal.

python3 ./normanpd/main.py

This will run the program utilizing python3 that you have loaded. If utilizing a virtual environment then please make sure
the virtual environment is activated and run the program using the above.

Bugs/Edge Cases:
The program does not automatically handle multiple runs.
If running for a second time, please make sure the normanpd database is deleted.
The program should just replace any PDFs if running for a second time. If this fails please delete the repository that
was created by the program for PDF storage.

Notes:
This project was created for the University of Oklahoma CS 5970 - Intro to Text Analytics Course.
